Model Predictive Control reframes the task of
following a trajectory as an optimization problem.
The solution to the optimization problem is the optimal trajectory.
Model Predictive Control involves simulating different actuator inputs,
predicting the resulting trajectory and selecting that trajectory with a minimum cost.
Let's look at one step in the process.
Imagine that we know our current state and the reference trajectory we want to follow.
We optimize our actuator inputs at each step in time
in order to minimize the cost of our predicted trajectory.
Once we found the lowest cost trajectory,
we implement the very first set of actuation commands.
Then, we throw away the rest of the trajectory we calculated.
Instead of using the old trajectory we predicted,
we take our new state and use that to calculate a new optimal trajectory.
In that sense, we are constantly calculating inputs over a future horizon.
That's why this approach is sometimes called Receding Horizon Control.
You might be wondering why we don't just carry out
the entire trajectory we calculated during the first pass.
The reason is that, our model is only approximate.
Despite our best efforts,
it won't match the real world exactly.
Once we perform our actuation commands,
our trajectory might not be exactly the same as the trajectory we predicted.
So, it's crucial that we constantly re-evaluate to find the optimal actuations.